Question
---
In case representing pairs as procedures wasn't mind-boggling enough, consider that, in a language that can manipulate procedures, we can get by without numbers (at least insofar as nonnegative integers are concerned) by implementing 0 and the operation of adding 1 as

```scheme
(define zero (lambda (f) (lambda (x) x)))

(define (add-1 n)
    (lambda (f) (lambda (x) (f ((n f) x)))))
```
This representation is known as Church numerals, after its inventor, Alonzo Church, the logician who invented the λ-calculus.

Define one and two directly (not in terms of `zero` and `add-1`). (Hint: Use substitution to evaluate `(add-1 zero)`). Give a direct definition of the addition procedure `+` (not in terms of repeated application of `add-1`).

Solution
---
`zero` is a procedure that takes a single argument, `f`, and yields another procedure which, in turn, takes a single argument and yields it unmodified. Note that `f` is not applied to anything inside the second lambda. This fact can be used to represent a non-negative number as the number of times `f` is applied to `n`. Explore more about _lambda numerals_ to understand the implication of this. In short, a non-negative number `n` is represented by a procedure that takes arguments `f` and `x`, applies `f` to `x` n times. Therefore, `one` and `two` can be defined as follows:

```scheme
(define one (lambda (f) (lambda (x) (f x))))
(define two (lambda (f) (lambda (x) (f (f x)))))
```

Assume `n` and `m` are the operands of `+` operator. Since they are lambda literals, they are evaluated as ``((n f) x)`` and ``((m f) x)`` to represent the numbers `n` and `m`, respectively. Adding `n` to `m` means applying `f` on the value yielded by evaluating the expression ``((m f) x)`` `n` of times. Therefore, ``(+ n m)`` is ``((n f) ((m f) x))`` which is defined as follows:

```scheme
(define (+ n m)
    (lambda (f) (lambda (x) ((n f) ((m f) x)))))
```