Question
========
The process that a procedure generates is of course dependent on
the rules used by the interpreter. As an example, consider the iterative `gcd`
procedure given above. Suppose we were to interpret this procedure using
normal-order evaluation, as discussed in Section 1.1.5. (The
normal-order-evaluation rule for `if` is described in Exercise 1.5.) Using the
substitution method (for normal order), illustrate the process generated in
evaluating `(gcd 206 40)` and indicate the `remainder` operations that are
actually performed. How many remainder operations are actually per- formed in the
normal-order evaluation of (gcd 206 40)? In the applicative-order evaluation?

Solution
========
The procedure under consideration is shown below:
```scheme
(define (gcd a b)
    (if (= b 0)
        a
        (gcd b (remainder a b))))
```

Normal Order Evaluation
-------------------------

The process generated in normal order evaluation of `(gcd 206 40)` is
illustrated as follows:
```scheme
(gcd 206
     40)

(gcd 40
     (remainder 206
                40))

(gcd (remainder 206
                40)
     (remainder 40
                (remainder 206
                           40)))

(gcd (remainder 40
                (remainder 206
                           40))
     (remainder (remainder 206
                           40)
                (remainder 40
                           (remainder 206
                                      40))))

(gcd (remainder (remainder 206
                           40)
                (remainder 40
                           (remainder 206
                                      40)))
     (remainder (remainder 40
                           (remainder 206
                                      40))
                (remainder (remainder 206
                                      40)
                           (remainder 40
                                      (remainder 206
                                                 40)))))

```

Note from the illustration that in a normal-order evaluation, each of the
arguments passed in all the recursive invocations of `gcd` is expressed in
terms of recursive `remainder` expressions.  Note also that in a normal-order
evaluation, `remainder` is evaluated only in the `if` expression. In
particular, in each iteration of the process, all the `remainder` expressions
in $b$ are evaluated. Moreover, the last iteration evaluates also the
`remainder` expressions in $a$.

Let $p$ and $q$ represent the number of `remainder` expressions in the
arguments $a$ and $b$, respectively. The following transformation captures how
these numbers change from iteration to iteration.

$\qquad p \leftarrow q$ \
$\qquad q \leftarrow p + q + 1$

$p$ and $q$ are initialized to _0_ and _1_, respectively. They can also be
expressed in terms of the Fibonacci numbers as follows:

$\qquad p = Fib(i) + Fib(i-1) - 1$ \
$\qquad q = Fib(i) + Fib(i+1) - 1$

where $i$ the $i^{th}$ recursive invocation of `gcd`.

The table below shows how these values evolve when `(gcd 204 40)` is evaluated:

$$\begin{array} {|r|r|r|r|}
     \hline i & p & q & Fib \\
     \hline 1 & 0 & 1 & 1 \\
     \hline 2 & 1 & 2 & 1 \\
     \hline 3 & 2 & 4 & 2 \\
     \hline 4 & 4 & 7 & 3 \\
     \hline 
\end{array}$$

Now the total number of `remainder` expressions evaluated in the procedure is
calculated by $$R(n) = p_{n} + \sum_{i=1}^n q_i$$ where $n$ is the total
number of recursive invocations of `gcd`.

Notice that the summation involving $q_{i}$ is nothing but summations of the
first $n$ and $n+1$ Fibonacci numbers.  Therefore, first let us derive a closed
form for these summations. Let $S(n)$ be the sum of the first $n$ Fibonacci
numbers. Now consider the following equations:

$$
\begin{align}
     Fib(n-1) &= Fib(n+1) - Fib(n) \nonumber \\
     Fib(n) &= Fib(n) - Fib(n-1) \nonumber \\
     \vdots &\nonumber \\
     Fib(0) &= Fib(2) - Fib(1) \nonumber \\
\end{align}
$$

Now taking the sum of each side gets us:

$$
\begin{align}
     S(n) - Fib(n) &= (S(n) + Fib(n+1) - Fib(1) - Fib(0)) - (S(n) - Fib(0)) \nonumber \\
     S(n) - Fib(n) &= S(n) + Fib(n+1) - Fib(1) - Fib(0) - S(n) + Fib(0) \nonumber \\
     S(n) &= Fib(n+1) + Fib(n)- Fib(1) \nonumber \\
     S(n) &= Fib(n+1) + Fib(n)- 1 \nonumber \\
\end{align}
$$

Armed with all this information, a closed form for $R(n)$ is derived as follows:

$$
\begin{align}
     R(n) &= p_{n} + \sum_{i=1}^{n}q_{i} \nonumber \\
     &= (Fib(n) + Fib(n-1) - 1) + \sum_{i=1}^{n}(Fib(i) + Fib(i+1) - 1) \nonumber \\
     &= (Fib(n) + Fib(n-1) - 1) + \sum_{i=1}^{n}Fib(i) + \sum_{i=1}^{n}Fib(i+1) - \sum_{i=1}^{n}1\nonumber \\
     &= (Fib(n) + Fib(n-1) - 1) + S(n) + (S(n) + Fib(n+1) - Fib(1)) - n \nonumber \\
     &= (Fib(n) + Fib(n-1) - 1) + 2S(n) + Fib(n+1) - Fib(1) - n \nonumber \\
     &= (Fib(n) + Fib(n-1) - 1) + 2(Fib(n+1) + Fib(n) - 1) + Fib(n+1) - Fib(1) - n \nonumber \\
     &= 3(Fib(n+1) + Fib(n)) + Fib(n-1) - n - 4
\end{align}
$$

In the evaluation of `(gcd 206 40)`, the procedure is invoked recursively 4
times; therefore, the total number of `remainder` expressions is $R(4)$.

Applicative Order Evaluation
----------------------------
Here things are much simpler than in a normal-order evaluation. The
`remainder` expression is evaluated only once before the recursive invocation
is made; therefore, the number of times `reminder` is evaluated is equal to the
number of times `gcd` is invoked recursively. The following is an illustration
of the process generated:
```scheme
(gcd 206 40)
(gcd 40 (remainder 206 40))
(gcd 40 6)
(gcd 6 (remainder 40 6))
(gcd 6 4)
(gcd 4 (remainder 6 4))
(gcd 4 2)
(gcd 2 (remainder 4 2))
(gcd 2 0)
0
``` 
