Question
--------
Ben Bitdiddle has invented a test to determine whether the interpreter he is
faced with is using applicative-order evaluation or normal-order evaluation.
He defines the following two procedures:
```scheme
(define (p) (p))
(define (test x y)
    (if (= x 0) 0 y))
```
Then he evaluates the expression
```scheme
(test 0 (p))
```
What behavior will Ben observe with an interpreter that uses applicative-order
evaluation? What behavior will Ben observe with an interpreter that uses
normal-order evaluation? Explain your answer. (Assume that the evaluation rule
for the special form `if` is the same whether the interpreter is using normal or
applicative order: The predicate expression is evaluated first, and the result
determines whether to evaluate the consequent or the alternative expression.) 

Solution
--------
Evaluation of the expression `(test 0 (p))` in an applicative-order interpreter
keeps the interpreter unresponsive due to the recursive evaluation of the second
argument. This is due to the fact that the interpreter evaluates each of the
operands before applying the procedure on the operands; consequently, the
evaluation of `(p)` wouldn't terminate since the procedure **p** is a recursive
procedure. Therefore, Ben wouldn't see any result, and would stare at the
terminal "indefinitely".

On the other hand, for a normal-order interpreter, the expression `(test 0 (p))`
expands to `(if (= 0 0) 0 (p))`, and since the predicate evaluates to _true_,
only the consequent gets evaluated. Therefore, in a normal-order interpreter
Ben gets 0 as a result of evaluating his test.
