Question
--------
The `good-enough?` test used in computing square roots will not be very effective
for finding the square roots of very small numbers. Also, in real computers,
arithmetic operations are almost always performed with limited precision. This
makes our test inadequate for a very large numbers. Explain these statements,
with examples showing how the test fails for small and large numbers. An
alternative strategy for implementing `good-enough?` is to watch how `guess`
changes from one iteration to the next and to stop when the change is a very
small fraction of the guess. Design a square-root procedure that uses this kind
of end test. Does this work better for small and large numbers?

Solution
--------
The `good-enough?` test verifies the condition $`\vert x-y^2 \vert < 0.001`$
where `y` is the square root of `x` calculated by `improve` procedure. The
inadequacy of this check can be seen easily on values of `x` which are on the
same orders of magnitude as _0.001_. For instance, if `x` is _0.001_ and our
starting point for `y` is _1.0_, `(sqrt 0.001)` will evaluate to _0.041245_
whereas $`\sqrt 0.001`$ is _0.03612_.

When it comes to large numbers, the issue I see is with the computation time
rather than the accuracy of the result. For instance, `sqrt(1234567898765)`
evaluates to _1111111.1099998057_ in no time, which is almost "equivalent"
to _1111111.10999980555499980_. However, if I were to use an input larger only by a digit, the 
interperter becomes unresponsive.

In order to implement the alternative starategy, it is necessary to have access
to both the current guess and the previous guess. Moreover, `sqrt-iter` has to
take additional parameter for the previous guess. With these changes in place,
`sqrt` can implemented as follows:

```scheme
(define (avg x y)
    (/ (+ x y) 2)) 

(define (frac prev-guess curr-guess)
    (/ (- curr-guess prev-guess)
       prev-guess))

(define (good-enough? prev-guess curr-guess)
    (< (abs (frac prev-guess curr-guess))
       0.001))

(define (improve guess x)
    (avg guess (/ x guess)))

(define (sqrt-iter prev-guess curr-guess x)
    (if (good-enough? prev-guess curr-guess)
        curr-guess
        (sqrt-iter curr-guess
                   (improve curr-guess x)
                   x)))
(define (sqrt x)
    (sqrt-iter 1.0 2.0 x))  
```

This alternative implementation works better than the first implementation in
that now the issues seen in the first implementation are not present anymore.
